--!-- The following information, while as accurate as possible, is a subjective assessment of the class in question. Changing your class later is extremely expensive and picking the wrong class can be a painful mistake. If you are using this tool to make a new character, please do your own research and ask questions in the Dead Frontier Discord to make sure you pick the right class for your needs. --!--

Athlete is a solid choice for new players who just want to get into the game.
It is an extremely simple class: you have more agility so you move faster, however the benefits are slightly deeper than that. Overall, agility is one of the most useful stats as it works for every build in every area of the game and just improves your experience in general. There are very few, if any, players who suggest not putting points into agility; it's just that useful. Digging a little deeper, the benefits for a new player are great as right from the start you'll be moving 10% faster than a player with any other class. 10% might not sound like much, but it's a breath of fresh air early on if you're used to playing another class. The extra speed will make you faster at looting, faster at travelling and improve your survivability when facing zombies as you can keep them at range or dodge their attacks more easily. Digging deeper still, 25 bonus stats is equivalent to 25 levels past level 50, giving you a great advantage when it comes to completing your early build. However, there is a caveat to this benefit.
The caveat is not directly related to the class or the bonuses, it is simply a matter of time. While it does make the game more comfortable early on, past a point those 25 extra stats will seem almost irrelevant when compared to the experience bonus of a roleplaying class. Eventually you will reach a level where you don't need those bonus stats for your weapons to operate at peak efficiency, and instead you'll be finding it harder and harder to push for that next level. However, even this caveat is only a matter of priorities; it does not matter if you're not someone who is particularly fussed about grinding or reaching the maximum level. If all you want to do is just play the game, athlete is one of the best options amongst the classes.