--!-- The following information, while as accurate as possible, is a subjective assessment of the class in question. Changing your class later is extremely expensive and picking the wrong class can be a painful mistake. If you are using this tool to make a new character, please do your own research and ask questions in the Dead Frontier Discord to make sure you pick the right class for your needs. --!--

Fireman is a somewhat deceptively weak class.
At first glance fireman seems like a perfectly average class, maybe even a rather strong one. Unfortunately, this is not quite the case. The melee proficiency bonus is rather weak and not particularly attractive as melee does not scale well in the late to end-game. It is useable at all levels of the game, however the performance is relatively lacklustre when compared to equivalent rifles. Plus, melee weapons are all but completely usless for grinding. The melee proficiency is not the real issue, however, it's the stat bonus. Endurance only serves two purposes: to increase the player's health and to increase the amount of time they can sprint for. The increased sprint duration is nice to have, however the difference between a 25 endurance player and one with 124 endurance is only a couple of seconds. And increasing your health honestly isn't much more useful, the maximum health a player can have is 200 at 100 base endurance (base endurance * 2). By the time you're in the mid to late-game, having 200 health will let you survive maybe 1 additional hit over someone with just 50 health. Endurance isn't going to save you; armour is, and later armours will break long before you've taken even 20 points of health damage. Another problem with relying on health to survive is that your overall stats (with the exception of strength and endurance) are reduced by 50% when your health drops to "critical" status, meaning that you're significantly more likely to be unable to avoid the next hit or run away somewhere safe. Dead Frontier's gameplay is balanced around not getting hit in the first place and relying on the ability to take more hits won't end well, especially considering that most mid to end-game bosses and end-game enemies can hit for well over 200 damage per hit.