--!-- The following information, while as accurate as possible, is a subjective assessment of the class in question. Changing your class later is extremely expensive and picking the wrong class can be a painful mistake. If you are using this tool to make a new character, please do your own research and ask questions in the Dead Frontier Discord to make sure you pick the right class for your needs. --!--

Police Officer is a balanced class suitable for new players who aren't concerned about grinding as fast as possible.
It offers the highest proficiency bonuses of any class and average stat bonuses which are useful for every weapon type except for melee and chainsaws. The proficiency bonuses are appealing because pistols are a cheap option for a ranged looting weapon and shotguns are the most efficient method of keeping yourself safe from aggro. The stat bonuses in accuracy and reloading are equivalent to 15 levels past level 50, and both help to improve your grinding efficiency with any gun. It is also the only class that allows the player to max all weapon proficiencies at level 325. The bonus stats are adequate, however the proficiency bonuses provide food for thought.
While both pistol and shotguns are powerful weapons in the early-game, and perfectly adequate in the mid-game, they fall off sharply when compared to other weapon types in the late to end-game. Their main selling point is their efficiency when it comes to ammo usage; they are simply far cheaper to run than many equivalent options, however that comes at a significant performance cost. Pistols are always competing with rifles to take the spot as your ranged looting weapon and, currently, rifles win by a wide margin. Not only do they have far greater damage per hit and damage per second in the late-game, the cost of ammo becomes largely irrelevant by that point as you loot more than you use in most cases and easily make more than enough money to cover the costs of using a rifle. For shotguns, it's not much better as their damage output gets overshadowed by machineguns even by the mid-game. Their greatest weakness is perhaps their knockback; while it is great for keeping zombies away from you, it is too strong in the sense that it pushes zombies far outside of your effective range, greatly reducing the speed at which you can kill them which can become a significant issue with late to end-game hordes. However, both weapons are a great option for finding your footing in the mid-game and can be comfortably used in most situations around Secronom Bunker, allowing you to earn enough money to play around with. Though it is worth noting that, at this point, many players will consider stat-resetting to a rifle/machinegun build.