--!-- The following information, while as accurate as possible, is a subjective assessment of the class in question. Changing your class later is extremely expensive and picking the wrong class can be a painful mistake. If you are using this tool to make a new character, please do your own research and ask questions in the Dead Frontier Discord to make sure you pick the right class for your needs. --!--

The Solider class is a powerful double-edged sword.
It offers the highest starting stat bonuses of any class and can be powerful when used right by a player that knows what they're doing. The bonus stats in strength, endurance, accuracy and reloading add up to a commanding advantage of 35 stat points, which is the equivalent of 35 levels past level 50. All of the bonus stats are useful to either machinegun or shotgun builds. It is also the only class that can max all stats at level 220.
However, this advantage comes with a cost: a -20% penalty to "base" experience. This means that regardless of what level you are and how well-equipped you are, you will always level up slower than a similar or even weaker player that has a different class, and there is no way to overcome this disparity. As an example, a player with no "base" experience bonus needs to kill 1225 basic zombies to go from level 1 to level 10. However, a player with the soldier class' -20% "base" experience penalty will have to kill 1532 basic zombies to go from level 1 to level 10. This is not a perfect comparison as there are other ways to gain experience, however it shows that there is a potentially significant penalty to experience gains while grinding ad this disparity is even greater when compared to roleplay classes. Additionally, the experience penalty is applied to "base" experience. This means that while a regular player with 100% experience bonus from implants will receive 30 experience for killing a basic zombie, a player with the solider class will only receive 24 experience. This gap gets even bigger later in the game, especially when compared to roleplay characters.

The soldier class has the potential to be very strong in capable hands, however the cost is just as great in the hands of those unprepared. For this reason the soldier class is almost never recommended to new players as the cost of a class change is extremely expensive and not something a new player should consider.