--!-- The following information, while as accurate as possible, is a subjective assessment of the class in question. Changing your class later is extremely expensive and picking the wrong class can be a painful mistake. If you are using this tool to make a new character, please do your own research and ask questions in the Dead Frontier Discord to make sure you pick the right class for your needs. --!--

Student is an unusual class and the only hybrid class available to players.
It is a fusion between a stat class, like Soldier or Athlete, and a roleplaying class. Unfortunately, it is largely irrelevant compared to either class type. First, the stat bonuses in strength, endurance and agility are honestly pathetic and will provide you with absolutely no real starting advantage. Plus, they're only equivalent to 5 levels past level 50 (3 levels if you don't care about endurance, and a meagre 2 levels if you don't care about strength). Second, the student class only gets 22% "base" experience bonus compared to a roleplay class' 30%. That's 8% less "base" experience bonus for only 5 bonus stats that won't help you survive, with 3 of the 5 bonus stats being in stats that you might not care about to begin with. But it's not all bad if you do choose student, as even a 22% "base" experience bonus provides decent benefits. As an example, a character with no experience bonus will need to kill 1,225 basic zombies to go from level 1 to level 10. A student, however, will have to kill 1005 basic zombies to go from level 1 to level 10. This is not a perfect comparison as there are other ways to gain experience, however it shows that there are decent benefits when grinding. Additionally, the experience bonus is applied to "base" experience. This means that while a regular player with 100% experience bonus from implants will receive 30 experience for killing a basic zombie, a player with the student class and the same experience bonus will receive 36.6 experience. This gap gets even bigger later in the game, though the student class will always fall short of the experience gains a roleplay class will achieve.

Due to the irrelevant bonus stats and lesser "base" experience bonus, the student class is largely considered a poor choice and is almost never, if at all, recommended to players in any circumstance.